Minor edits mostly for clarity (#6)
wslack/wslack.github.io: _posts/2021-02-11-pif-18f-usds.md

### Funding

USDS is *appropriated*, meaning that Congress budgets money for USDS staff in law, as is the case for most civil servants. 18F and PIF are funded by partner agencies that pay 18F and PIF for their services. (Without budgeted funding, they cannot legally work for free and need a formal mechanism to "recover costs.") The implications of this key difference drive many of the details below.

### Engagement style

> USDS deploys teams into agencies to sit alongside partners; current feds will recognize a resemblance to a *detail* arrangement. USDSers work on projects aligning with their skillset and the required skills can change during a project's lifetime, such that the starting team can be very different from the team ending the engagement. Pre-pandemic, USDSers commuted to agencies around the DC area, including two near Baltimore (you won't have to go to Baltimore, but working on Medicare made it worth it for me!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
USDS deploys teams into agencies to sit alongside partners; current feds will recognize a resemblance to a *detail* arrangement. USDSers work on projects that need their skillsets, and those needs often change during a project's lifetime. That means the team at the end of an engagement might be totally different from the team that did the initial discovery. Pre-pandemic, USDSers commuted to agencies around the DC area, including two near Baltimore (you won't have to go to Baltimore, but working on Medicare made it worth it for me!).
```

> 18F teams work a similar timeframe as USDS teams (people may join/leave projects as needs change), but they don’t typically get deployed into an agency the same way. For example, with full backend access to agency e-mail & systems. 18F is more like a consultancy model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
18F teams work projects a similar timeframe as USDS teams (people join/leave projects of varying length as needs change), but don't typically get full backend access to agency e-mail & systems. Think of a consultancy model and you're close.
```

None of the three provide long-term support to specific projects; success is in partnering with agencies who can successfully manage projects at the end of an engagement like [the VA coronavirus chatbot, HRSA's telehealth.hhs.gov,](https://digital.gov/2020/10/16/product-lessons-from-the-front-lines-of-covid-19-civic-tech-response/), or the FEC's [website and campaign finance report tooling](https://18f.gsa.gov/2017/05/30/the-new-fec/).

> USDS and 18F maintain reference materials like [playbook.cio.gov](playbook.cio.gov) and [the TechFAR handbook](http://playbook.cio.gov/techfar/) for USDS and 18F’s [guides](https://18f.gsa.gov/guides/), all of which (along with [digital.gov](https://digital.gov/resources/)) provide best practices, case studies, and reference points that agencies have adopted in internal policies. All three offices leverage long-term products and platforms within TTS solutions, such as cloud.gov, login.gov, [Federalist](https://federalist.18f.gov/), and [the US Web Design System](https://designsystem.digital.gov/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, USDS and 18F maintain reference materials like [playbook.cio.gov](playbook.cio.gov) and [the TechFAR handbook](http://playbook.cio.gov/techfar/) for USDS and 18F’s [guides](https://18f.gsa.gov/guides/), all of which (along with [digital.gov](https://digital.gov/resources/)) provide best practices, case studies, and reference points that agencies have adopted in internal policies. All three offices leverage long-term products and platforms within TTS solutions, such as cloud.gov, login.gov, [Federalist](https://federalist.18f.gov/), and [the US Web Design System](https://designsystem.digital.gov/). 
```
